# Migration Guide: v18 => v19

There are significant breaking changes in version 19 of ES Components. This is largely an attempt to reduce the surface area of component APIs while also increasing flexibility.

## Dependency Updates

The following peerDependency updates have been made:

`styled-components@4`
`react@16.8`
`react-dom@16.8`

All components have been updated to use React's new [hooks API](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html).

The `peerDependency` for `moment` has been removed and can be removed from downstream projects.

## Component API Updates

With the transition of components within this library, it made sense to make additional breaking changes to try and reduce complexity of some components.

### Notification

The Notification component has a smaller set of props and allows downstream projects to have more control over how to render it. There are also three different implementations of `Notification` for each variant.

The `dismissable` prop has been renamed to `isDismissable` to be more in line with `bool` prop naming conventions. The `isAlert` prop has been removed and replaced with a `role` enum prop of `alert` or `dialog`. It will default to `dialog`, so no changes are required unless `isAlert` was previously set.

For any `Notification` with the `useLightVariant` prop, change it to a `LightNotificaton`.

For any `Notification` in version 18 with the `useMessageOnlyVariant` prop, change it to a `MessageOnlyNotification`.

The `header` and `additionalText` props have been removed and `Notification` will now render all children. `Message` and `InlineMessage` components have been and can be used to achieve the same effect as `header` and `additionalText` used to provide.

`callsToAction` no longer exist as part of the `Notification` api. There are three new components to assist in this pattern. `CallToAction` will render a `Notification`, `LightCallToAction` will render a `LightNotificaton`, and `MessageOnlyCallToAction` will render a `MessageOnlyNotification`, respectively.

There is also an `Action` component that wraps buttons to provide a common styling across `CallToAction` components. See the [Patterns](https://wtw-im.github.io/es-components/#patterns) section for more information.

### Buttons

Buttons now come in three flavors, `Button`, `OutlineButton`, and `LinkButton`. Each accept the same props. In addition to that, any additional props will get passed to the underlying `button` element.

If there is an existing `Button` with the `isOutlineButton` prop, change that to an `OutlineButton` component.
If there is an existing `Button` with the `isLinkButton` props, change that to a `LinkButton` component.

### Forms

Form controls now share a common component for spacing, orientation, and validation state. All form components should be wrapped with a `Control` component.

#### Control

A `Control` component controls spacing, orientation, and validation state of its children.

#### Label

Use a `Label` component for any form controls except for `RadioButton` and `Checkbox` components. A `Label` has no props will render children and is solely used for styling purposes.

#### AdditionalHelp

An `AdditionalHelp` component can be used to provide context for a specific `Control`. It will receive appropriate styling as long as it is within a `Control` component.

#### Dropdown

A `Dropdown` no longer has required props and will pass any props to the underlying `select` element. Any previous implementation should change from passing an array of objects corresponding to `optionText` and `optionValue` to using `<option>` tags within a `Dropdown` component.

#### Checkbox

A `Checkbox` no longer has required props and will pass any props to the underlying `input` element. The `Checkbox` will render a label with any children of the `Checkbox` component.

#### Textbox

A `Textbox` is no longer responsible for creating a corresponding `label`. All of the required props have been removed and any props that are included will propagate to the `input` element.

`Textbox` and `MaskedTextbox` are now separate components. All mask functionality from `Textbox` has been moved to `MaskedTextbox`.

#### RadioGroup and RadioButton

A `RadioGroup` is now responsible only for displaying all of its child components. It propagates any props down to each child component, so an `onChange` prop can be added to the `RadioGroup` component and it will be set on each `RadioButton` component.

`RadioButtton` will render any children in it's corresponding `label`. `RadioButton` components no longer have any required props. It will receive event handlers directly from it's parent `RadioGroup` component. `disabled` and `checked` props on a `RadioButton` will render the UI accordingly. `checked` gets passed down from the `RadioGroup` component based on whether or not the value of the `RadioButton` matches the `selectedValue` prop on the `RadioGroup`.

Any previous implementation should change from passing an array of objects corresponding to `optionText` and `optionValue` to using `<RadioButton>` components within a `RadioGroup` component.

### DatePicker

The `DatePicker` has been updated to no longer require a `moment` object. It now operates with the native JavaScript `Date` object. Dates can be manipulated using a library like `date-fns` if necessary.

### Popover

Popover utilizes a [render prop](https://reactjs.org/docs/render-props.html) to display the popover trigger, which is typically a button component.
This render prop function requires `ref`, `toggleShow`, and `isOpen` parameters to function properly.

### Navigation

Both `SideNav` and `HorizontalNav` components have been updated to accept and render any child with consistent styling. Typically, an `a` or a `button` will be passed as a child, however any component that accepts a `className` prop will work, like React Router or Reach Router.

### withWindowSize

`withWIndowSize` has been replaced by the `useWindowWidth` hook. In very few cases should we consume the `windowHeight` provided by the HoC. The `useWindowWidth` hook allows us to consume the window width directly without requiring a prop to be passed.
